---
title: "November Technology News"
tags: [Daily Tech News]
categories:
  - Daily Tech News
date: 2020-11-01
---

## **November's Tech Updates**

1. [Walmart drops plans to use robots for tracking inventory](#walmart-drops-plans-to-use-robots-for-tracking-inventory)   
2. [The 5 Biggest Cloud Computing Trends In 2021](#the-5-biggest-cloud-computing-trends-in-2021)   
3. [Crypto crime slows in 2020, but DeFi hacks rise - CipherTrace report](#crypto-crime-slows-in-2020-but-defi-hacks-rise---ciphertrace-report)   
4. [Daimler will shrink with shift to electric, autonomous cars](#daimler-will-shrink-with-shift-to-electric-autonomous-cars)   
5. [Smart doorbells 'easy target for hackers' study finds](#smart-doorbells-easy-target-for-hackers-study-finds)  
6. [EU plans to open data to sharing in bid to rival Asia and U.S.](#eu-plans-to-open-data-to-sharing-in-bid-to-rival-asia-and-us)  



## [November 3rd, 2020]

##  Walmart drops plans to use robots for tracking inventory
- **Who:**  Walmart Inc.
- **What:**  The company has dropped its plans to use moving robots to scan shelves and keep track of inventory, as the company ends its partnership with Bossa Nova Rotobics Inc.
- **When:**  Monday, 2nd of November
- **Why:**  “This was one idea we tried in roughly 500 stores just as we are trying other ideas in additional stores,” Walmart said in a statement.
- **How:**  The company ended its partnership with a Robotics company, who it had worked with for five years to improve customer experience by using robots to assist shop staff and make their jobs easier.
- **So?:**  
  - Current technology did not go as planned; However, the company would continue to test new technologies and invest in its own processes and apps to track inventory and help move products to shelves as quickly as possible.
  - It will continue to put effort to digitise its stores to make shopping faster as it competes with Amazon.com Inc.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-walmart-robots/walmart-drops-plans-to-use-robots-for-tracking-inventory-idUSKBN27I2MU)


## [November 9th, 2020]

##  The 5 Biggest Cloud Computing Trends In 2021
- **Author:**  Bernard Marr
- **What:**

1. Multi-cloud approaches will lead to a breakdown of barriers between providers
  - Currently the big cloud providers take a walled-garden approach to the service they provide. However, the industry is increasingly turning to hybrid or multi-cloud environments, meaning that the bridges between their platforms are to be made for a collaborative approach.

2. AI will improve the efficiency and speed of cloud computing
  - AI is a key enabler of technology's adaptation to our needs. AI is where the effects of smarter algorithms delivered through cloud services will be felt - such as image recognition tools, language processing, recommendation tools, cooling systems and etc.

3. Gaming will be increasingly delivered from the cloud, just like music and movies
  - Tech giants and startups started offering their own platform for cloud gaming, which revolutionizes the way we consume entertainment media by offering instant access to vast libraries of games that can be played for a monthly subscription.  

4. Hybrid and on-premise cloud solutions grow in popularity
  - Choosing between a public, private, or hybrid cloud environment has proved challenging for some organizations. The providers have woken up to the need for different platforms and approaches within organizations – e.g. utilizing public cloud to provide content delivery while storing and processing customer data and other controlled information via private or on-premise solutions.

5. More of us will be working on Virtual Cloud Desktops
  - The service where the entire environment of our workstation is delivered as a managed cloud service to our laptop or desktop screen where we work - a.k.a desktop-as-a-service.
  - Organizations can take advantage of by-the-hour subscriptions for the time their employees spend working at their machines, reducing the cost of redundant technology.
- [Link to the article](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2020/11/02/the-5-biggest-cloud-computing-trends-in-2021/?sh=64c0241512d9)


## [November 11th, 2020]

##  Crypto crime slows in 2020, but DeFi hacks rise - CipherTrace report
- **Who:**  A report from crypto intelligence company CipherTrace
- **What:**  
  - Have said that the loss from cryptocurrecny thefts and hacks have declined to $1.8 billion compared with last year, but crimes from the "decentralized finance" sector rose.
  -  DeFi stands for “decentralized finance”, which are transactions on platforms that facilitate lending outside of banks.
- **Why:**  The cryptocurrency players have implemented more security procedures regarding crypto crimes - therefore about 20% of the crimes came from DeFi. The surge in DeFi was what ultimately attracted criminal hackers, resulting in the most hacks for the sector this year.
- **How:**  Companies and individuals have rushed DeFi products to market that have not gone through security verification and validation, hence, the weaknesses are showing.
- **So?:**  DeFi networks need to gain permission to clearly meet the regulatory compliance - this way, people will need customer verification, leading to less problems rising due to its permissionless design.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-crypto-currencies-crime/crypto-crime-slows-in-2020-but-defi-hacks-rise-ciphertrace-report-idUSKBN27Q29N)



## [November 13th, 2020]

##  Daimler will shrink with shift to electric, autonomous cars
- **Who:**  Daimler, a German automotive engineering company.
- **What:**  They plan on reducing the company size to focus on capturing recurring revenues with software-based services.
- **When:**  It will unveil a new vehicle car operating system in 2024.
- **Why:**  
  - As EU regulation imposes carmakers to [drop the CO2 emission to 95g /km by 2020-2021](https://www.brusselstimes.com/news/eu-affairs/60725/car-makers-turn-electric-as-european-regulations-kick-in/) & to benefit from German government's [tax incentives for low emission cars](https://www.cleanenergywire.org/news/new-cars-germany-becoming-greener-not-green-enough).
  - In addition, the change makes Daimler fit with a new era where luxury no longer defines itself through opulence and excess but also through sustainability and efficiency.
- **How:**  
  - The company will invest in digital tech, such as developing a new OS that includes sofware-based functionalities where services can be updated; so that it can make money with new sources of revenue.
  - They are hiring a lot of new software engineers, experts in battery chemistry and electrification for the new drive.
- **So?:**  It will result in job losses as electric car takes less time to build than a conventional version.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/idUSKBN27S2QA)



## [November 24th, 2020]

## Smart doorbells 'easy target for hackers' study finds
- **Who:**  The consumer group 'Which'
- **What:**  The publisher has revealed that the major security flaws in popular smart doorbells are putting consumers at risk of being targeted by hackers inside their homes.
- **Why:**  
  - The most common flaws came from weak password policies and a lack of data encryption.
  - Two of the devices in the test could be manipulated to steal network passwords and then hack other smart devices within the home.
  - The Victure Smart Video Doorbell, was found to send users' home network names and passwords unencrypted to servers in China.
- **So?:**  
  - A new legislation to safeguard consumers from unsecure products has been requested tot he government.
  - Amazon has removed at least seven product listings in response to the findings.
  - When purchasing a smart doorbell, it is advised to change the default password to something long, and to enable two-factor authentication.
  - Convenience shouldn't be compromised for security - companies should be putting the security of their customers first.
- [Link to the article](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-55044568)


## [November 27th, 2020]

##  EU plans to open data to sharing in bid to rival Asia and U.S.
- **Who:**  The European Commission
- **What:**  European Commission is proposing new rules to allow sharing of public and personal data with businesses and research organisations.
- **Why:**  To avoid EU firms and citizens relying on data from Asian and U.S rivals.
- **How:**  In order for data to circulate, confidence needs to be established - hence the commission proposed a new model based on the neutrality and transparency of so-called “data intermediaries,” which would organise data sharing or pooling, to increase trust.
They will also regulate the selling of data to another company or using it to develop their own product based.
- **So?:**  EU hopes to catch up on the digital innovation, particularly in consumer markets such as social media, online shopping and smartphones
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-eu-tech/eu-plans-to-open-data-to-sharing-in-bid-to-rival-asia-and-u-s-idUSKBN2851MH)


## [November 1st, 2020]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**  
- **When:**  
- **Why:**  
- **How:**  
- **So?:**  
- [Link to the article]()


## [November 1st, 2020]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**  
- **When:**  
- **Why:**  
- **How:**  
- **So?:**  
- [Link to the article]()
