---
title: "Introduction"
tags: [Machine Learning]
categories:
  - Machine Learning
date: 2020-02-01
---

## 1.  **Introduction**

**What is Machine learning?**

  - That gives computers the ability to lean without being explicitly
    programmed
  - You don’t have a full control of program anymore – as it will
    produce diff outcome

**When to use machine learning?**

  - Personalization- what is it that YOU are looking for?
  - Field of language- translation, Speech to text and text to speech
  - Online shopping – suggesting things you like, Netflix (confirms the
    prediction, if its wrong, the system learns)
      - Contest to improve the algorithm by 10%
  - Self-driving – distinguishing pedestrians from the road

**AI**

  - **Supervised learning** is mostly used to interpret larger amount of
    data
  - **Reinforcement learning** – has to do with control. Once you have
    the understanding of the world around you behaviour will change. It
    won’t lead you to same conclusion. (finds max reward)
  - When to write a normal program and when to write a ML program?
      - For normal programs, we have an algorithm, we implement it, and
        it outputs expected outcome.
      - ML becomes important when you don’t know what exactly you want, but
        you could provide examples
          - what music do you like? what exactly do you like about that
            genre?
          - Gather ‘features’, and use them to describe what you acc like

**Supervised learning**

  - **Regression**- learning the pattern of the function

      - Predictions from the past, and deriving predictions for the
        future
      - A graph that has a solid trend – would match with the model when
        new data points are given

  - **Classification** – shifting the burden of programming to throwing
    bunch of examples
      - e.g. distinguishing chair from a desk
      - Start by choosing **features** – stuff that differentiates the
        object
      - Then pass those features to algorithm classification

**Unsupervised learning** – we are still looking for categories, but the
labels aren’t given

  - **Clustering** – these points belong together however, human beings
    have to go through them and evaluate
  - **Reinforcement Learning** – used to find the best possible path it
    should take in a specific situation. There is no answer, but the
    reinforcement agent decides what best to do to perform given test.

**Machine learning process**

1.  Data collection
      - you need some data to work with, are also responsible for
        gathering data. you need variety of data. E.g. face classification
        – you need other ethnic groups too
      - aware of the fact that all classes should be represented

2.  Feature selection
      - When you have bunch of raw data what are you gonna look at? – e.g.
        number of leg, surface, sizes etc
      - Deriving the distance btwn the ppl in the video – they recognize
        shaking hands, throwing stuff, etc depending on data, you need to
        be creative to see what it is that you r tryna look at
      - New way – deep learning\! you really just give the neural network
        the image, and that will figure what’s important

3.  Algorithm choice
4.  Training
5.  Evaluation- tbat to tell how good the model is
