---
title: "September Technology News"
tags: [Daily News]
categories:
  - Daily News
date: 2020-09-01
---

## **September/ October's Technology Updates**

1. [Amazon's surveillance can boost output and possibly limit unions: study](#amazons-surveillance-can-boost-output-and-possibly-limit-unions-study)   
2. [Bermuda Dives Deeper Into Crypto With Stimulus Coin Test Program](#bermuda-dives-deeper-into-crypto-with-stimulus-coin-test-program)    
3. [EU to introduce crypto-assets regime by 2024, EU documents say](#eu-to-introduce-crypto-assets-regime-by-2024-eu-documents-say)  
4. [Tesla to acquire German battery assembly maker](tesla-to-acquire-german-battery-assembly-maker)   




## [September 1st, 2020]

##  Amazon's surveillance can boost output and possibly limit unions: study
- **Who:**  Amazon
- **What:**  Through an increasing surveillance, the company aims to boost employee output and potentially limit unionization efforts around the United State.
- **Why:**  To track employees and maintain a healthy workforce, and also to track time they spend working as more people telecommute. In addition, amazon uses the data to support people who are not performing to the levels expected with dedicated coaching to help them improve.
- **How:**  
  - Amazon uses such tools as navigation software, item scanners, wristbands, thermal cameras, security cameras and recorded footage to surveil its workforce in warehouses and stores.
  - The data creates heat maps and uses data such as team-member sentiment and a diversity index to figure out which of its stores may have a higher risk of unionizing.
- **So?:**
  - This can have an impact on workers’ ability to advocate for better working conditions and push for collective action.
  - However, the director of enforcement strategy at the Open Markets Institute (OMI) claims that company should prohibit extensive surveillance, and if they have to, they need to obtain approval from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-amazon-com-workers-surveillance/amazons-surveillance-can-boost-output-and-possibly-limits-unions-study-idUSKBN25R2L1)



## [September 2nd, 2020]

##  Bermuda Dives Deeper Into Crypto With Stimulus Coin Test Program
- **Who:**  British overseas territory, Bermuda
- **What:**  
  - Is testing a stimulus stablecoin to embrace cryptocurrencies, which can be used to buy food and other essentials.
  - The stimulus token is a so-called stablecoin, which aims to keep its value from fluctuating much and is backed by bank deposits - It is completely backed by fiat and comply with its regulations.
- **When:**  The pilot program started in July, and is still an ongoing project.
- **Why:**  
  - The coin, created by the Stablehouse coin clearing firm, was designed to be used by businesses the government wants to help.
  - Bermuda is an ideal test bed, as it has a population of more than 71,000 and is seeking ways to provide financial services to residents, some of whom don’t have bank accounts, but carry smartphones.
- **How:**  The country is accepting tax payments and fees in another stablecoin, along the basic shopping -  it is seeking to expand the usage within the country.
- **So?:**  It’s also looking at using so-called decentralized finance applications to provide easier access to loans for its residents.
- [Link to the article](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-09-01/bermuda-dives-deeper-into-crypto-with-stimulus-coin-test-program?srnd=technology-vp)



## [September 21st, 2020]

##  EU to introduce crypto-assets regime by 2024, EU documents say
- **Who:**  The European Union
- **What:**  They will introduce new rules within four years to make cross-border payments quicker and cheaper through the use of blockchain and crypto assets like stablecoins.
  - A comprehensive framework will be introduced, including the methods and risks associated with it.  
- **When:**  Within four years - by 2024.
- **Why:**  
  - To encourage a greater use of digital finance.
  - Also because the EU wnats a rapid shift to 'instant' payments as the pandemic lockdowns showed the growing importance of cashless payment.
  - TO make it easier to share data within the financial sector.
- **How:**  The EU executive will present a draft law to clarify how existing rules apply to crypto assets and set out new rules where there are gaps.
- **So?:**  With the ease of one-stop shop licensing, instant payment systems should become the “new normal” by the end of 2021.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-eu-cryptoassets/eu-to-introduce-crypto-assets-regime-by-2024-eu-documents-say-idUSKBN2692CP)




## [October 5th, 2020]

##  Tesla to acquire German battery assembly maker
- **Who:**  Tesla Incorporation and ATW Automation
- **What:**  The company has agreed to acquire the German assembler ATW Automation - a supplier assembling battery modules and packs for the auto industry.
- **When:** On September 25th
- **Why:**  Since electric cars are on the spotlight, a fast-charging, high-capacity battery is one of the major hurdles to clear. ATW was on the brink of liquidation due to a slump in orders, hence the mergers and acquisitions (M&A).
- **How:**  The company is currently building its third vehicle manufacturing facility near Berlin, which will also include a battery plant, and aims to start construction on a new vehicle factory in Texas this year.
- **So?:**  Tesla plans to ramp up battery production significantly in the coming years and sharply reduce the cost of battery packs within the next three years.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-tesla-ats-automation-germany/tesla-to-acquire-german-battery-assembly-maker-source-idUSKBN26N2VG)




## [September 1st, 2020]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**
- **When:**  
- **Why:**
- **How:**  
- **So?:**
- [Link to the article]()




## [September 1st, 2020]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**
- **When:**  
- **Why:**
- **How:**  
- **So?:**
- [Link to the article]()
