---
title: "5G와 엣지 컴퓨팅의 만남, '비즈니스 혁신' 어떻게 이끌어 낼까 - 5G and Edge Computing - The road to Digital Transformation"
tags: [Edge Computing]
categories:
  - CS Papers
---


As the era of the 5th generation mobile communication (5G) accelerates, various services using it are being activated. 5G's characteristics being low-latency, ultra-wideband and ultra-connectivity has enabled services such as live game streaming, self driving cars and remote diagnosis.

In particular, as the corona pandemic continues last year, the explosive growth of data traffic and expansion of online-based businesses are further advancing the 5G era. Hence, it is becoming more important to provide service quality tailored to specific industries by combining 5G, network edge computing, and cloud for business innovation.


## What the major telecommunications companies are doing
1. They are creating platforms that support various applications by **virtualizing** the mobile core network and using the cloud - it is using edge technologies such as multi-access edge computing (MEC) to distribute data locally to manage data.

2. In addition, from the perspective of the **wireless access network**, the network technology is evolving in the open direction (open RAN) with the method of vRAN, a virtualized wireless access network based on an x86 server equipped with a hardware acceleration function, away from the legacy wireless network. **Cloud services** are also transforming into various forms such as multi-cloud and edge cloud.

3. New data is being produced and processed in an '**edge**', away from the traditional data center and a public cloud. It is predicted that by 2022, more than half of the data that companies generate will be generated and processed at the edge. The important thing is to integrate the data at the edge with the data generated in the data center.

4. From the perspective of **enterprise users**, in the case of 5G services, they want to introduce the three characteristics of
   - high-capacity high-speed, high-connectivity, and ultra-low latency,
 in areas such as automated mobile devices, IoT gateways, and network virtualization. **General consumers** expect to use services optimized for 5G by using real-time streaming games, AR/VR tangible services, high-quality video viewing over 4K, and unmanned autonomous vehicles.


## Changes being made in the industry

- Major infrastructure companies are focusing on creating solutions to provide  consistent infrastructure/ application, integrated data access, and analysis across the core, cloud, and edge.

- It is collaborating with various solutions such as Kubernetes, OpenStack, and VMware and IT hardware equipment operators to ensure compatibility with network vendors - to ultimately establish the edge environment to accelerate the digital transformation of the enterprises.


### Resources

- [5G와 엣지 컴퓨팅의 만남, '비즈니스 혁신' 어떻게 이끌어 낼까](http://www.ddaily.co.kr/news/article/?no=211074)
