---
title: "January Technology News"
tags: [Daily Tech News]
categories:
  - Daily Tech News
date: 2021-1-01
---

**Table of Contents**
<!-- TOC START min:1 max:3 link:true asterisk:false update:true -->
  - [Los Angeles to offer vaccine record on iPhones](#los-angeles-to-offer-vaccine-record-on-iphones)
  - [UK competition watchdog to probe Nvidia's Arm takeover](#uk-competition-watchdog-to-probe-nvidias-arm-takeover)
  - [Apple, Hyundai set to agree electric car tie-up, says Korea IT News](#apple-hyundai-set-to-agree-electric-car-tie-up-says-korea-it-news)
  - [Father of the Web Tim Berners-Lee prepares 'do-over'](#father-of-the-web-tim-berners-lee-prepares-do-over)
  - [- **Who:**](#--who)
  - [- **Who:**](#--who-1)
<!-- TOC END -->



#### [January 3rd, 2021]

## Los Angeles to offer vaccine record on iPhones
- **Who:** People who get the coronavirus vaccine in LA
- **What:** They will be able to keep proof of immunisation in their iPhone's digital wallet, which is usually used for payment cards, boarding passes, or event tickets.
- **When:** As soon as the vaccination starts in LA
- **Why:**
  1. It will first be used to remind people to get their second required dose of the vaccine. (As it has to be done over 2 times)
  2. It could also be used as proof of vaccination in the Covid-19 hotspot of Los Angeles.
  3. Another potential advantage is privacy - the relatively simple pass system "can't actively perform surveillance, unlike smartphone apps" as it does no transmit data.
- **How:** The technology is enabled through the partnership with software firm Healthvana. Healthvana has a track record of handling sensitive patient data, having delivered millions of HIV test results to US patients in recent years.
- **So?:**
  - But there also has been some resistance to the idea of "vaccine passport" as some fear that they will be denied an entry to venues if they are unwilling to share personal medical information.
  - But problematic as the digital vaccine record feature is not available on all phones, including Android users.
  - And there is no way to prove that the person holding the phone is the same person who received the vaccine, without some other identifier.
- [Link to the article](https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-55487302)



#### [January 7th, 2021]

##  UK competition watchdog to probe Nvidia's Arm takeover
- **Who:**  Britain's competition regulator (watchdog)
- **What:** Announced that it would start an investigation into Nvidia Corp’s $40 billion deal to buy UK-based chip designer Arm Holdings.
- **When:** 6th of January, 2021
- **Why:**  
  - This regards the deal of Nvidia, the biggest U.S. chip company and Japan’s SoftBank Group in September to buy Arm.
  - The deal has raised concerns about the potential impact on Arm’s long-standing position as a so-called neutral supplier, whose chip technology is used by a variety of customers (Apple, Qualcomm and a host of others).
- **How:**
  - Nvidia has pledged to retain Arm’s open-licensing model and keep the customer neutrality.
  - It will install “firewalls” to ensure Nvidia does not access confidential information from Arm’s customers, some of which would be its competitors, or get early access to Arm’s products, said a top Arm executive.
  - The UK government also included that Nvidia should keep Arm’s head office and staff in Cambridge, eastern England.
- **So?:**  The approval process will take about 18 months from the day the deal was signed.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-arm-holdings-m-a-nvidia-cma/uk-competition-watchdog-to-probe-nvidias-arm-takeover-idUSKBN29B1NF)



#### [January 11th, 2021]

##  Apple, Hyundai set to agree electric car tie-up, says Korea IT News
- **Who:**  Hyundai Motor and Apple Inc.
- **What:**  The two plan to sign a partnership deal on autonomous electric cars by March and start production around **2024** in the United States, aiming to launch a self-driving electric car in **2027**.
- **When:** The report said Hyundai and Apple planned to release a “beta version” of the Apple cars next year. However the production is planned to start around 2024.
- **Why:**  Apple was moving forward with autonomous car technology and aimed to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology as early as 2024.
- **How:**  
  - An IT news report, now removed, has included that the companies planned to build the cars at **Kia Motors’ factory in Georgia**, or invest jointly in a **new factory **in the United States to produce 100,000 vehicles around 2024.
  - The full annual capacity of the proposed plant would be 400,000 vehicles.
  - The report also said Hyundai and Apple planned to release a “beta version” of the Apple cars next year.
- **So?:**  It sent Hyundai shares up nearly 20%. Hyundai Motor rose 14.6%, Hyundai Mobis shares rose 12.7% and Kia shares rose 9.1%.
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-hyundai-motor-apple/apple-hyundai-set-to-agree-electric-car-tie-up-says-korea-it-news-idUSKBN29F0C3)


#### [January 13th, 2021]

##  Father of the Web Tim Berners-Lee prepares 'do-over'
- **Who:**  Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the British computer scientist who invented the World Wide Web (WWW)
- **What:**  Wants to re-make cyberspace in order to fix some of the problems such as privacy and data control that web brings.
- **Why:**  Because people are "fed up with the lack of controls, the silos" - hence, enabling the personal control of private data will lead to a new way of collaboration.
- **How:**  
  - With a new startup called **Inrupt** - it builds on ideas developed by an open-source software project called Solid.
  - They plan to build a new web where people can use a single sign-on for any service, and have control over personal data as data is stored in “pods,” or personal online data stores.
- **So?:**  
  - The CEO of Inrupt has signed up Britain’s National Health Service (NHS), the BBC and the government of Flanders in Belgium as pilot customers.
  - It plans on addressing the long-standing problem of incompatible medical records of NHS.
  - At its core, "the new web" is mostly a set of protocols for how machines talk to each other. Hence, a key aim for Inrupt is to get software developers to write programs for the platform, to actualise the revolution. 
- [Link to the article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-tech-bernerslee-interview/father-of-the-web-tim-berners-lee-prepares-do-over-idUSKBN29H1JK)


#### [January 11th, 2021]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**  
- **When:**  
- **Why:**  
- **How:**  
- **So?:**  
- [Link to the article]()


#### [January 11th, 2021]

##  
- **Who:**  
- **What:**  
- **When:**  
- **Why:**  
- **How:**  
- **So?:**  
- [Link to the article]()
